# Pyzelius 1.7.7
## What is it?
A dashboard designed to improve workflow for manual testing, written in Python. I created it both as a tool to be used in my work, and as a little side project to kill time.

## How did you build it?
With some help from a LLM, I structured a GUI with Python's native library Tkintr, and bound relevant classes and functions to it via a Controller file.

I tried to use Classes as much as possible, and to respect the old "one method, one job" mindset. 

Apart from built-in libraries, I used Pandas and openpyxl to format the daily report, and pyperclip for added functionality. We'll see for the future. 

## What does it do?
The program has has three main functionalities:
  1. Creation of a Daily Folder, also called WorkTree. The Worktree is comprised of a main folder with the current date, and three sub-directories called "Passed", "Defects" and "Report".
  2. Signature generator, with values provided by entry fields in the GUI.
     2a. NEW FEATURE: Device Manager. It's now possible to register devices and OS used for testing. The selection will be available through the Signature's Combobox;
  3. Creation of a daily report of all the tests done, distinguishing between Passed and Defects. The class used for this iterates upon the contents of the folders "Passed" and "Defects", using their name to fill a Pandas Dataframe, which will then be printed on a spreadsheet formatted via openpyxl.
  4. Creation of a Sanity Testing folder, with a specific structure: Sanity directory-> subdirs with the test name -> subdir "Screenshots" and .docx file named "Master". The test subdirs are generated by reading       an Excel file with a specific format.
## Why?
I'm currently working in manual testing, and it occurred to me that I did a lot of repetitive actions (searching for files, creating folders, copypasting stuff...). This is supposed to alleviate that, and to give me a base upon which to improve workflow and ability to retrace previous work in case of need. 

## What's next?
Ideally, version 2.0 will include a way to store the "signature" needed in my area of work for the tests. Maybe adding a storage space for the devices and apps, registered by the end-user.
Also, hotkeys will be bound to the main functions for comfort.

As for the future: 
- Dynamic, fully customizable signature, containing all the necessary information.
- One idea was to connect this dashboard to a SQLite database, in order to keep record of tests and evidence on the long term. I doubt the practicality, but I'm enthused by the possibility.
- Statistics. I would like to use Pandas to elaborate on the tests done, making graphs, evaluating performance and so on. Just for fun.
- UI. Tkinter is functional but not ideal, especially from the "comfort" side of things. I'm currently looking into designing one with Figma.
- Language support. Currently, the app is a mess of italian and english. The standard version will be in English, with options for Italian, German and Russian. Still no exact idea on how to do it, but I would gladly accept help =).
- Multiple coding language integration. Python has its limits, and I would like to work with Cython to start speeding things up.

